---
layout: post
number: 6
name: Gia
date: 2017-10-10
short_text: Tall and slender, with sweetness, street smarts, and strength.
tweet_text: Tall and slender, with sweetness, street smarts, and strength.
hero: /assets/images/006-Gia-card.jpg
drink_crop: /assets/images/006-Gia-drink.jpg
twitter_url: "https://twitter.com/Paine_MacTane/status/917791507389829120"
author: Paine×Mactane
tags: 
  - "Difficulty: Easy"
  - Champagne
  - Character Drink
  - Belter
  - Secondary
  - Flute
  - Easy to Batch
  - Expanse Cocktails Project
ingredients:
  - amount: 1
    unit: part
    name: gin
  - amount: 1
    unit: part
    name: pear brandy
  - amount: 1
    unit: part
    name: elderflower liqueur
  - amount: 1
    unit: part
    name: lemon juice
  - amount: 1½
    unit: parts
    name: ginger liqueur
  - amount: 6
    unit: parts
    name: dry champagne

---

Gia lives and works in Ceres Station’s red-light district. She’s seen gang violence and death, and knows how to keep her head down when riots are imminent. Her heart and mind are open enough to find love with an Earther, and she has the strength to stand up to Miller on behalf of what’s important to her.

We always knew we wanted to serve Gia's drink in a champagne flute - tall and elegant, like her! 

Elderflower seemed to fit her essential gentleness well. Then, we added pear & ginger for their winning combo of crispness & warmth. We thought these reflected her openness & intelligence well. 

Lemon brightened it - Gia's smile when Havelock improves his Lang Belta! Adding gin gave it her strength and complexity.

We tried a couple of New World gins, but the heavy botanicals unbalanced the drink. London Dry worked much better. 

This drink is great to share with friends on a celebratory occasion. Mix a small pitcher with all the ingredients except the champagne, then distribute it among flutes and top them all up with champagne. Yam seng!   

{% include ingredients.html %}

#### Instructions:

Stir the first five ingredients briefly over ice in a mixing glass. Strain into a champagne flute and top with champagne. Garnish with a lemon twist.

{% include tags.html %}
