---
layout: post
number: 53
name: Anubis
date: 2018-09-06
short_text: A terrifying stealth ship, the setting of The Expanse's first scene.
tweet_text: "The Protogen stealth ship that is the setting for the first scene in The Expanse: Julie Mao's escape from her captivity and discovery of the protomolecule infection."
hero: /assets/images/053-Anubis-card.jpg
drink_crop: /assets/images/053-Anubis-drink.jpg
twitter_url: "https://twitter.com/Paine_MacTane/status/1037770217844367360"
author: Paine×Mactane
tags:
  - "Difficulty: Easy"
  - Rye
  - Coupe
  - Spirit-Forward
  - Food Science
  - Ship Drink
  - Protogen
  - Stealth Ship
  - Expanse Cocktails Project
ingredients:
  - amount: 2
    unit: ounces
    name: rye
  - amount: ½
    unit: ounce
    name: Averna
  - amount: ½
    unit: ounce
    name: blue curaçao
  - amount: 2
    unit: dashes
    name: grapefruit bitters
  - amount: 100
    unit: mg
    name: activated charcoal (optional)

---

The first ship seen on The Expanse, the Anubis is a stealth attack ship built by Protogen. Its destruction of the Canterbury brings the Solar System closer to open war, but it is infected by the protomolecule it’s transporting from Phoebe Station and is eventually destroyed by the Rocinante crew.

We wanted the drink to have elegance, both in taste and in presentation, because of the quote below. The recipe is only a few, balanced ingredients, and we found it looked graceful (and evil!) in the coupe.

"It was long and lean and utterly black, almost impossible to see against the backdrop of space with the naked eye. Its radar-deflecting curves gave it an aerodynamic look almost always lacking in space-going vessels. It made Holden’s skin crawl, but it was beautiful." - Leviathan Wakes

If you decide to leave out the activated charcoal, the drink turns out a deep camo green color. We think that's appropriate, too. 

Important notes on activated charcoal: Ingesting large amounts of it near the same time you take medication can inhibit your body's ability to absorb it. It is recommended that you take medication at least 2 hours before or after taking activated charcoal as a dietary supplement.

The capsules we opened and used when making this drink had a recommended dose of 560-580mg when used as a supplement; the drink uses 100mg - less than 1/5 that amount. (When used in response to poisoning, the dosage is 25-100 grams, 250-1000 times the amount in this drink.)

We aren't doctors, but it's always a good idea to do your research and be careful with your medications.

More practical note on activated charcoal: the stuff will try to get *everywhere*. But cleanup is fairly easy if you keep it over the sink at all times. Be careful when cutting the capsule open; it may try to explode.

{% include ingredients.html %}

#### Instructions:

Combine all ingredients with ice in a shaker. Shake well, then strain into a chilled coupe. Twist an orange peel above it to express oils, rim the glass with it, then discard the peel.

{% include tags.html %}
